Gary King
08/03/2022
Class 08 reading notes
Windows Registry
The Windows Registry is the database where windows and many programs store their configuration settings.
There are several databases in the Windows registry and this system wide registry settings will apply to several users and each Windows account but each account has its own settings.
Windows 10 & Windows 7 store its registry in files located under c:\windows\system32\config and each user account uses its own NTUSER.dat file in c:\windows\users\name directory but you can't edit these files directly.
If you change  a program's settings it can also change them in the registry and when you log off and shut down it will save those changes in the registry.
Not all of the programs store their settings in the registry because each program developer can decide if they want to save some or all of them there and if only some are stored in the registry then the others would be stored in for example the “your Application Data Folder”.
A user will most likely never use the registry because Windows and many programs use it athat way the user does not need to go there.
If for some reason you needed to edit something in the registry then you edit it with the Registry Editor and this will allow you access.
If you went into the registry and started deleting and or changinging files the user could make Windows unbootable so before you start making changes you would want to do a backup of the registry and also the computer.
When you get into the Registry Editor it prompts you to agree to a User Account Control before continuing and the will allow the user to make modifications to the registry.
Once inside the registry editor you can now modify the files that you want to copy and paste the address in the address bar and it will take you to that file.
You can also edit the registry by downloading and running a .regfile that contains a change that is applied when it is run.

Windows 10 event viewer uses a feature that shows a detailed log of all the applications in a feature called Event Viewer.
This viewer shows the user the working applications as well as the error events that occurred while running an application.
This will help in tracing applications that have problems while being used, after reviewing the detailed log you can then resolve any issues that have occurred during the use.
To use the viewer you would have to go to the task bar then type EVENT VIEWERthen click search to open a new event window and there you can view the different type logs.
The application log will show the events related to the interface components that are needed to run. There are 3 levels of events this looks for and they are for information, error and warnings.
The security log shows the event related to any login attempts that were successful and also the ones that were not successful..
The system log will track events related the pre-installed programs that had any errors, warnings and information related to them.
