Gary King
08/08/2022
Class 11 Reading Notes

You can completely clean your computer by using DBAB (Darik's Boot and Nuke)destruction program.
In order to use it would have to be run from a cd disk or a thumb drive so it can continue to operate during destruction mode of all files.
This will wipe off any of the personal files that are on the system as well as it will wipe the Operating System. 
To start this program you would first have to download it onto the computer that will be wiped clean.  When downloaded it will show up as a subfolder labeled dban.
Next you will need to use a flash drive or cd and download this file on to them.
To start you would need to start up the unit with the flash drive or CD in the computer and the process has started.
After restarting the computer you will start to see prompts like You are moments away from irreversibly erasing all the files on all of your hard drives, if the machine trys to start as normal then something isn't right and would need to repeat earlier steps but if you see the DBAN home screen then you are close to starting the wipe clean procedures.
During the cleaning process you will not be able to use the mouse so just the keyboard will be used. You will be the F# keys but before pushing them remberer to press the FN button and then the desired F#key to make everything work correctly.
At this time you can decide to either wipe the complete system or just the hard drives that you desire.
You can choose the Interactive mode to choose which hard drives it is that you want to wipe clean that way it would not be a complete deep cleanse.
After completing the erase methods that you choose, a blue screen comes up and now its just waiting for DBAN to do its thing and wipe your hard drives.
You can not stop or restart once you have gotten to this point .
When completed a black screen comes up verifying that the data has been wiped from the computer and you would now remove the flash rive or disk from the computer so you can shut the computer down or restart it.
It is at this point when you can dispose of the computer or reload it with another OS.

Solid State Drives (SSD ) failures usually start with flawed memory like saving, reading am=]and moving of files. If anything like this starts you may want to run software that can search for physical defects in the SSD.
If there are physical damages like a hardware that is damaged or degraded flash cels then the SSD itself will need to be replaced.
If dysfunctions derives from logical error-bad blocks, software malfunctions, outdated firmware some techniques may be able to recover the a working SSD.
If you are seeing problems with an SSD you should go ahead and perform a system back up so that you can still access all of your files and not have anything lost when you have to replace the SSD.
A good practice to get into to save yourself some scrambling around time if your SSD fails you may want to start the following steps.
First is download a program of any type of free software programs that are designed to monitor the SSD’s where it monitors the heat of the SSD and the performance of it.
Second by purchasing a new SSD  that is equipped with a built in monitoring system and it will let you know when you need to take certain procedures.
Third is to have a backup strategy where you perform regular and routine back ups where you vulnerable information is kept in case of a system failure.
